I was just finishing shaving using my
computer's camera because the the mirror
in this apartment is really lousy so
this is effectively a high-tech mirror
um what does it mean when people say I
love Japan or I love Thailand and I'm
here thinking primarily of western
expatriates I've received you know
negative feedback shock horror etc in
response to articles I've written lately
about both Japan and Thailand and videos
have recorded you know quite a while ago
I offered critique of what's been going
on with vegans in Thailand and Tyler has
been a big part of my life I just looked
it up I moved to Thailand way back in
November of 2004 and what I
fundamentally don't understand or don't
relate to in this idea that because you
like a place because you care about a
place you're going to pretend that it's
problems don't exist that you are going
to engage in a sort of cover-up as if
you yourself or a nationalist or a
propagandist for that place I think it's
really useful to shift the verb from
love to care about if you care about
Thailand can't you also care about the
oppression of its indigenous minorities
its minority peoples generally
indigenous or not from the first day I
got the Thailand I was interested in the
ethnic minorities of Thailand groups
like the Mon groups like the akka and
the north nobody taught me that and I
didn't develop that interest in response
to something I didn't have some kind of
epiphany some moment where I started
caring with that from the first day I
got there I was concerned about an
interest in those grey
and that wasn't only in terms of
contemporary social and political
problems sort of things you might read a
newspaper it was also in relation to how
history was written I was really aware
that in reading um official history we
use this in Thai studies in the history
zone people like to say official history
instead of propaganda but the official
version of history as dictated by the
Thai government has many remarkable
riddles in it many omissions and many oh
great lies it's not all as though it's
still important to study it carefully
and sometimes for example the version of
Thai history written by Europeans
contains lies and you find the truth in
the official Thai version even though
it's propaganda in various ways but if I
was interested in those ethnic
minorities and those oppressed and
excluded peoples those conquered
people's partly just to contrast their
version of history to the official Thai
history and partly because you know it
was studying this ancient dead language
pally pally relates the history of
Southeast Asia and the way that say
ancient Greek relates to this tree of
Europe and I remember when I would go to
the National Library I forget now it's
official called the National Library of
the National Archives in Bangkok there
was a terrible exhausting difficult trip
to make in the heat and so on maybe
transportation has gotten better since
2004 in Bangkok but anyway it was
actually always showed up exhausted and
dehydrated when I finally got to that
library and you know all of the books
from Myanmar from Sri Lanka and even
from ethnic minorities within Thailand
like the Mon those books were all hidden
away in a corner they were excluded from
the rest of the library and where other
patrons wouldn't find them and laborious
Lee went there and that was the one
section that really mattered to me every
time I went that was the first place
that was going to now in this video I'm
not going to talk about why those books
were especially important obviously a
very small number of
people with with specialized interest in
the history literature philosophy
history of Buddhism also would
understand why those books were so
important but they were and they still
are an extremely small number of
english-speaking people who ever studied
those books till today um and you know I
went back again and again and one day
those books that were already
discriminated against shall we say they
disappeared and when I asked where they
had went the woman the young woman
working in the library and I say that
because most of the staff there were not
librarians they they just employ like
teenagers to do many of the jobs there
the young woman said oh all of the
foreign books were removed the new
library policy is only Thai books are
available if you don't have special
access privileges and those special
privileges have to come from Parliament
you have to write a letter to the
National Parliament to get access to the
forbidden books at the National Library
this is not a religious institution
this is a normal secular political
institution run by the by the government
and the word she used for foreign was
not a nice word you know there are
different ways to say foreign in the
Thai language I'm the one you hear most
often if you're a westerner is the term
used for a European foreigner it's not
the same way they refer to a foreigner
from India or Pakistan
and I remember where I said to a reply I
could only speak a little bit of the
Thai language at the time but I said in
some combination of English and Thai but
many of those books were made here in
Thailand they're just made by ethnic
minorities and she of course answered oh
no same same foreigners public cameras
if you love Thailand if you care about
Thailand why were you there for put
yourself in the position of making
excuses for timing why wouldn't you be
passionately trying to direct the
attention of the public towards the
problems in Thailand that you care about
in the past I've given the very simple
example of if you're vegan why don't you
care about elephants or animal
slaughterhouses in Thailand if you care
about human rights if you care about
politics democracy whatever it is I
don't see how caring about Thailand
equates to being a propagandist for
Thailand or covering up for almost a
family and I'm now experiencing to my to
my sadness I can't say to my shock I
can't say to my surprise the extent to
which white Western people who have
adopted Japanese culture in some sense
who idealize Japanese culture feel that
they ought to be the protectors of a
largely fictional image of Japanese
nationals and that they've invented if
you care about Japan I think the way to
care for Japan is to engage deeply with
its social problems and not to try to
perpetuate a fiction that Japan does not
have those social problems and not to
attack anyone who dares to in good faith
an engage in discussion of or research
of those problems maybe that's enough to
say for this one